That's correct.
We're doing a whole hour on this.
No, we don't. Please, no. Gotta get to the house.
Would you like this is
We,
Good afternoon everybody.
Good to have you here.
We have you in here for the annual review
of the Health Research Council of New Zealand.
I'm Sam Upend, chair of the committee, Dr. Levy,
good to have you here.
And, uh, profess Levy and everyone else as well.
Um, I will open it up for you
to make some introductory remarks
and then we'll, um, allow members
to make some questions. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Chair members of the committee.
Excellent. So today I've got with me, uh, professor Rin Do,
who's a fellow council member.
We've also got Lynn
and Tanya Pocock, Dr.
Tanya Pocock, who are currently in the interim
chief executive role.
So our chief executive
after, uh, quite some time as so, Collins,
who you would've seen before she resigned, um,
in January to go head up the Quality Safety Commission.
And currently we have, uh,
interim Chief Executive Arrangement.
Sorry to interrupt. Can I just get you to move
Your mic? Oh, sorry.
Thank you. Is that better? Perfect. Thank you.
Uh, so this interim, uh, uh, arrangement will continue
until such time as we've appointed the
definitive chief executive.
Um, in terms of just introductory comments, um,
we, we've been making good progress
in the Health Research Council.
Uh, you would've seen that there have been announcements,
uh, last previously and,
and just recently about changes
to the Health Research Council and potential changes.
Uh, so of course we are, we are adapting to those.
And, and these have, um, seen our funding reduced over time.
And so we are adapting the organization in order
to deal with, with that.
One thing we did have with us today, which
if it was appropriate, um, chair for us to distribute
for later reading an investment impact report 2005,
that probably gives the best perspective of the impact
that the Health Research Council is having
on the health status of New Zealanders through, um,
the investments that we make into health research.
So, we'll, we'll leave those with you.
It's not something that, um, is widely publicly available,
but it's a very good document to Thank you.
Give an insight into what we actually do.
Other than that, I think, um, we fine to proceed Chair,
Mr. Chair.
Thank you, commissioner
and, and your colleagues.
Um, I guess I'm really interested to know
whether your priorities
for research has changed over the last two years,
and if so, where are you putting more focus
and where less focus
and what would the reason for those changes be, if any?
Yeah, well there are some, I'll ask Tanya
to talk specifically about this.
There are some changes, uh, that we make.
These are generally in response to, um,
government priorities.
Um, and there have been some of those changes.
So perhaps I'll ask, uh, Tanya to take you through those.
Thanks, Tanya.
Uh, yes. So the priority have been the changes,
the changes that we've been have made been very much in
relation to the, the leader
of expectations from our ministers.
Um, so sorry to interrupt, but
We are live streaming and I just, it's very, very quiet.
If we can just move up into the Thank
You. That's okay. Is
that better? Yes, yes, correct. Uh, yes.
So the priorities are very much related
to the leader of expectations.
Um, so there's focus on improving, um, health outcomes
focus very much on, uh, how health research is going
to impact and make a difference in strengthening the health
system and delivery of health services, uh, clinicians
and clinician lead research is a key priority as well.
Um, delivering better value across
everything that we are doing.
Uh, and then the other one is obviously in the kind
of economic gain and, um, strengthening economic outcomes
and commercialization of research
Supplementary.
Um, so, and I see that, um, achieving health targets is one
of the government's priorities,
and that you, that's in the letter of expectation.
Those targets are controversial from our per,
from some of our perspective.
Um, so can you give me an indication of, given it's kind
of a, a refocusing or reprioritization
and you do have reduced funding, what are the areas
that will now no longer be funded
in terms of health research?
And in particular, can you tell me about funding relating
to equity and to Maori?
Uh, yes, I can. Um, so it, it's really difficult
to anticipate in advance of any of any funding
what we will be funding less of
because so much of what we find is, um,
so our research priorities are signaled.
Um, and so that gives the research sector an indication of
where we would like to invest and what we're looking for.
But it does not mean that anything
that is in another area is not going
to get through on basis of
Just a final one, if I may.
Thank you. Um, so that's something potentially we can look
at, um, in some coming months.
One of the targets is around, um, access to
more timely treatment after screening.
Does the letter of expectation now mean
that there will be more focus on that
and potentially less focus on screening
for various health things?
How are we going to ensure that screening remains a priority
for health research, given that
that is not con concluded in the government targets?
Um, I think you'll, you'll see from a lot of the, um, the,
the case studies that we've done, that screening
and diagnostics is still a very key focus
of the research that we are funding.
And there's still significant investment in that. And so
What's the difference now on the level of investment?
Excellent. Um, can you tell us
what the six contestable funding rounds were available
to apply for in the 20 23 20 24 year?
The six contestable rounds? Yes.
Uh, so we would've had, uh, projects, programs
emerging first researcher grants, um, house delivery,
career development awards, um, and Explorer grants.
Excellent. What were the success rates
for applications in each of those rounds?
I don't have that to hand. I'm sorry.
I'd have to come back for each of those specific,
Do you have a rough indication?
The rough indication? It does vary year on year,
depending on the number of applications
and the quality that we receive.
Um, and it can vary between kind of nine and 13%.
Excellent. Chair, very much.
Um, one of your focus areas is, is people.
Um, do you, do you see researchers being able
to survive a full career on HRC funding?
No. Thank you for coming.
I think one of the outcome
or the target is com commercialization.
So this is what HRC is going to support the researcher.
So based on your report, I think 70, 73%
of the HRC contract meet the criteria of having a potential
to generate failure, and 20% have identified
commercial potential.
So how many of this contract ultimately receive commercial
investment in the, in the, in the projects?
Do you have any follow ups?
Well, the, the health research council
primary responsibility is
to invest into health research in New Zealand.
It's a contestable fund in that, uh, the decisions are made
by scientific assessment committees.
And then once the grants are made, whether people take that
to patent or commercialization, that rests more in the
mb part of the world than our part of the world.
So don't you think that this data will be a good
measurement on how we grant our HLC to people?
Well, this is part of the shift
that we've been asked about.
So part of the letter of expectations is
to have a greater focus on that.
And in our signal to researchers,
there is a greater focus on
That. Yes. Also, I
want you
to comment a little bit on the outcome free, which you have,
um, quite a target initiative in the area of AI
and healthcare as well.
However, I know that this is the new area,
so I know there's, there's not much detail.
Um, there's no baseline baseline value we can compare or,
or, or the new measurement.
Can you give a bit more detail like
how you guys could measure the success for this outcome?
Yeah, so I, I lost Tanya to talk to the detail about that,
but just in principle, we have, uh,
in our more recent RO rounds, we've had a specific call
around artificial intelligence, which is the first one
for us, specifically orientated to that.
But that doesn't preclude, um,
investment opportunities in our other rounds.
Uh, for artificial intelligence,
obviously it's a fast moving field
and there's more experience and opportunity there.
And, and as part of that, uh, one
of our new counseling members
who was appointed has got specific expertise in the world
of artificial intelligence.
But you may want
to comment a bit further about the
actual outcome of the grants.
Uh, I can give you a little bit more detail about the
investments that we've made.
So, um, with the most recent, um, request for proposals
that went out, we council agreed to fund 10 of the contracts
for 4.6 million.
Um, and that's in addition to the 32 million
that we have in kind of current existing contracts
that are already, um, the contracts that are using AI
as part of the methodology.
And we just expect that to keep increasing the course
of the speed at which artificial intelligence
and its consequences are, um, uh,
happening in the world of research.
Mm-hmm. Right. So I've got questions from Ingrid.
Jenny, I'll go to Jenny.
Thank you. Uh, could you talk a little bit about the
relationship and, and working with Health New Zealand, uh,
with the ministry as well
and setting the priorities for re research funding, um,
and sort of a, a forward trajectory of
That Yeah. Trajectory.
So we'll ask Tanya or most
of these questions on Tanya's particular area of work.
So we'll ask, uh, Tanya to take that one as well.
Okay. Um, so we've been working very closely, uh,
over the past several years actually.
Um, so it's not just a recent thing with the Ministry
of Health around, um,
and Health New Zealand around identifying
the priorities for health.
Um, there was a very big consultation done as part
of the New Zealand health research strategy,
which was nationwide,
and we worked collaboratively with Envy
and Ministry of Health to develop that strategy.
Um, the second phase of that was a prioritize,
a research prioritization framework,
which identified the priorities for health research.
And again, that was a nationwide consultation
that we worked on with, um, minister
of Health and MB as well.
Um, our specific health delivery research investment stream.
Um, we have worked with Health New Zealand recently, uh,
just in 2025 to refresh that.
Um, but prior to that, when we were setting it up, um, we,
we went around all of the, um,
22, 22 DHBs at that stage.
Um, and, um, yeah, and,
and worked with their, um, boards
and their clinical leads to develop that stream.
Alright. Thank you Mr. Chair. Um, this a lot of questions.
I'd like to come back later with another question
around the staffing and the CE arrangement.
But, um, in the meantime, just to
continue looking at the focus on health equity, you said
that currently we, um, we dunno what the numbers are
'cause there are funding rounds currently available.
I guess when I look at the post-hearing, uh, sorry,
the written question responses.
We have a number of questions related to, um,
Maori health funding and resources, community engagement,
um, health workforce and so on.
And, and, and in each case,
the council has said it's not responsible for that.
And I understand that strictly speaking it's not,
but my question is really about how are you going to ensure
that with the, um, new government priorities
that don't have a strong sway on equity,
and yet we have some of the worst health statistics, um,
in New Zealand are experienced by Maori.
How do we know that Maori are going
to have an equitable share of the funding
or the necessary share of the funding research?
So if you could answer that,
and then also, can we please see
after the, this hearing, the amount of, uh, research grant
that has specifically gone to initiatives involving Maori
or versus in the previous, uh,
two years ago would be very helpful.
Yes, we can certainly provide that
and I can give you a little bit of detail.
Um, um, so from the HR C'S perspective, I mean all
of the health research that we found has the potential
to contribute to
and should be thinking about
how it's going to advance Maori health.
Um, 26% of the researchers that we are currently funding
that have current contracts with us are Maori,
um, Maori led research.
Um, we've got 164 active contracts, uh,
representing 17.2 million of our investment,
which is about 13% of our total.
We have 10% ringfence, uh,
10% ringfence, 10% ringfence for Maori health.
Yeah. Um, it's, uh,
it has averaged about 13% over the past five years,
but in 2024, um, it was 21.5%,
um, of the grants that were, um,
Great, thank you. And
if we can just get the two near comparative,
if I can just follow with a supplementary,
which is really just a question why you don't
have a strategic, is it
A supplementary or primary?
Well, it's primary. I'll come back to you.
It, it is a supplementary in terms of, um, the
business being very much driven by the, um, I'll go
To Hamish and then I'll come. Okay,
Excellent. Thank you. Um,
so there's been a few delays in the funding
rounds for the last, last year.
There was a delay in opening the last round
and then also a delay in announcing the previous funding.
What, what has led to those delays?
Um, slightly, Yeah,
Yeah, please.
Um, the, the primary cause of the delay is, uh,
it's about the timing of our round.
So they, they take a,
they take essentially a year from when they opened
when we announced results.
Um, and that hasn't allowed us any time to kind of,
to be responsive, to make changes, to introduce, um,
any changes to ongoing rounds.
Uh, so we needed to take a little bit
of time in order to do that.
And, and in doing that, what we were doing was making sure
that we were signaling to the research community, um,
as clearly as we could what the new priorities were.
Um, we made some changes to the process to try
and streamline and, and create more efficiencies.
Um, that those were the kind of the,
the key changes that we made.
We also developed eligibility criteria
to help us manage the number of applications that we get
as well and in re relation to the, um, to the success rate
and the burden on the research sector.
So we've introduced some measures
that we really were just trying to, to, to do to, uh,
continuous improvement really.
Is that, is it, did that lead to the delay
of the announcing of previous funding round
or did that lead to delays of opening the next round?
The current rounds
That was, that was delays to the opening of,
of the current rounds.
What about the delay to announcing of the previous round?
Um, Well, the previous round, the delays in that,
so there was, um, a short delay
in terms of having the meeting.
And then there was also a, um, some time taken to make sure
that we can respond to what our current leaders
of expectations, one of the issues that we face,
these rounds don't necessarily fall in synchrony
with letters of expectations.
So when you get a lead of expectation that's different
to the one that you had before, uh, we make every effort
that we can to be responsive to that.
Thank You. So,
So, so I, so you're talking about the change
of proce procedures following the granting rounds.
So I assume one of those changes is the fact
that it's not going out to international peer review.
How are you going to assume
that we're gonna be internationally
competitive without that step?
Uh, well, we, it's based on the fact that we, um,
we we're actually following international practice, um,
and there has been quite a bit
of analysis done internationally
and we replicated that internally as well.
Um, it's not that there isn't peer review, um,
there is definitely peer review.
What we found was that we have, we have the most peer review
steps in the, in any system in the world.
We have four. Um, and there was no difference in the ranking
or the position of a grant for the first two steps,
which are the OEOI steps when we get the
application to assess.
And then there, there was very,
very little not statistically significant difference
between the ranking and what was funded
between the two levels of peer review,
which are the international and the, um,
and the committee peer review.
So that was what informed, um, that change.
So just so, so you, it is just going,
you're skipping the international step,
but leaving the committee step in in, in place, yes.
How are you going to select the committee members?
I might be your own speak to that
as the research committee chair.
Yeah. So committee members typically get, uh, recommended
by the, um, by the, in,
I'm the chair of the public
health research committee, for instance.
So the members would make recommendations,
but specific members and the secretariat then invites them,
and that's how it's being decided.
But, um, obviously dependent on the type of applications
that we receive, uh, we, we would focus on specific,
um, expertise areas.
So it's a combination of, um, committee members.
So this is committee members
of the public health research committee
or the biomedical committee knowing the field
making recommendations.
And that's based on the type of applications we receive.
Mr Thank you, um,
just some questions around governance.
So the first is with the leader of expectations,
which is heavily predicated on the government targets,
which I mentioned before, which for, um,
outside are controversial.
Um, why is there no strategic plan when other similar
organizations have of expectation and strategic plans?
Uh, essentially our strategic plan is
our statement of intent.
Um, and then our statement of performance expectations,
which is what we're going to do, what our work plan is,
what we're gonna focus on, um, what our actions are
for the year ahead, um,
that's gonna step us toward achieving, um, the objectives
that we've set for ourselves, given the statement of intent,
Which is predicated on the, uh, leader of expectations.
Yes. Yeah. Thank you.
The second question is, uh, probably to the commissioner,
which is can you to, we've got some concerns, uh,
that there seems to be quite a reshuffling within health
organizations, um, so
that there isn't a institutional knowledge necessarily on
some of the policy development.
Can you please talk us through what has happened
with the CE role and just the, the movement of,
of leadership, um, so that we can get an understanding of,
of if this is business as usual,
because it is rather unusual
to have an interim chief executive, um,
answering our questions and to you here.
Yes. So well, um, the, so Collins, uh,
been with us about five and a half years.
So she decided to take up the opportunity
to become Chief Executive
of Health Quality Safety Commission.
And it takes us a period of time to actually, um, go
to the market to find a chief executive.
So we decided in any event, we'd need
to have some interim arrangements,
and then we would go to the market to look
for the best possible chief executive that we can.
So how long have those interim arrangements been in place?
Uh, since, is it February?
Uh, well, no, since August was when, oh, sorry.
Last was when Sunny left. Sorry.
But we have both been, we both have, um,
senior management roles within the organization.
So you say you expect, sorry.
When do you expect the role to be filled
Role? We, we don't
know yet,
but it'll probably take another few months.
Okay. And my last, my last question if I may,
Mr. Chair. Could, could
I, oh, sorry.
It is just, um, in terms of the letter of expectations
and the statement of intent, again, all of this is built on
the house of cards of targets
that don't explicitly look at point of order.
Point of order. Okay.
A, a built, sorry, I'll reframe that if I may, Mr. Chair,
That that's, that's an allegation
that I think really is inappropriate
Here. Okay. I'll
reframe that to say, yeah, I'll withdraw Mr.
Chair. My point is that the Tar health targets are
controversial, and our concern is
that explicit in those targets are no mentions
or waiting for equity, accessibility
and affordability in particular.
Um, and if you have an letter of expectation
and then a letter of intent, statement of intent
that is based on those targets, that
therefore means researchers who are looking
for funding will be funneled down a tunnel of research
that is built around targets
and not, not around things like affordability of healthcare.
How can the public know
that you are researching into very important areas
for the health system where there are big issues currently
that feels like the,
the focus is being taken away from that.
So how can we be reassured that that is being covered
in the research so that we know where the problems are?
So the, the health targets are part of the lead
of expectation, but they're not the only part.
So we have a number of criteria
and that we provide guidelines to, um, researchers
for potential research projects,
and there's an opportunity within those
to present whatever research that they want.
That's a guideline.
We, we prefer that people will present
proposals within those guidelines,
but you should also please not forget that we have, uh,
20% waiting
for Maori advancement criteria in our system
that is embedded in our system.
I'm thinking about affordability, commissioner is,
is affordability specifically, I'll come to you after this.
In your, in your terms of reference for researchers.
Do we specifically do that? I mean, 'cause
Affordability is a massive issue for people.
Yeah. So
just supple meeting on that.
I appreciate my colleague is busy trying to pin down, uh,
different health targets.
Can you actually explain to the committee that range
of research that the Health Research Council does from
fundamental research right.
Through to more applied and clinical, uh, maybe
to give a bit of a flavor of actually
what Health Research Council does?
Yeah. Right across the spectrum, uh, through translational
into, now we're much more into also the delivery space.
Do you wanna give some examples?
And you'll see many of those in metro?
Yes. Um, yes.
So I mean, we, we, we fund biomedical research,
public health, um, health services, health delivery,
clinical, um, and there's a very broad spectrum.
And, and even in relation to the health targets, it's about
what research can contribute to the health targets.
But that starting point, um,
is obviously much further along
at the beginning of the continuum.
Um, and we don't always know what the outcomes of
that research is going to be,
but it is, uh, the requirement that we have is that it's
to improve health outcomes, um,
and that it has a line of sight to that.
Um, and it could be, you know, many, many years
before that that is realized.
So it's not all at the, um, at the targeted delivering
end. Mm-hmm.
And, and maybe if I can add, um, we, we also fund research
that looks at, uh, screening.
For instance, HPV self sampling was funded by the HRC
as a research project, and it's now
implemented by government.
So we, we do fund those sort of, uh, things as well
as the more fundamental things
and some of the things that we've discussed earlier.
So it, it is a, it, it's, it's a wide range
of things that we fund. Um,
Is screening being deprioritized, given
that there are now, there is now a focus on health target.
Let's just keep this orderly. He's answering the question.
If you have a question, please come through the chair, Mr.
Chair, if by May I think it's legitimate.
I'll, I'll let him complete this answer. Thank you.
Well, I think I've completed my, uh,
My answer can, I'll just add chair to that.
So yes, the research that we fund,
and I've just finished writing
before for the annual report that will come out soon.
It's, it's really quite a wide range.
So the research may land up as a new medication,
a new device, a new policy, a new guideline, a new practice.
Uh, so this research actually goes into many channels
and lands up at those outcomes.
We, we don't necessarily start off by saying we're looking
for a device or a, that is not, the guidelines
give an opportunity for researchers
to understand what's likely in the end,
the decision is really made on the best quality science.
There is one thing about the health Research Council,
that's how we do our funding.
So Hold on, give you the call.
You have a supplementary, we've gotta you've got a sub.
You've got a sub. So,
So I appreciate, we've had a lot
of talk about the health targets,
and I appreciate the example of the HPV screening,
but the health research council would also then fund maybe
fundamental research into human papillomavirus.
Yes. Regardless of potentially liter of expectation there
of health targets, because of course that could lead
to beneficial information, of course.
So you're not limited to health targets
as maybe alluded to? No.
Okay. Thank you. It is not limited to that.
And, uh, you know, we also, uh, a lot
of research into social determinants of healthcare as well.
It's really a wide canvas.
And Good. Then Carlos?
Um, I think it, it's really heartening to hear
that social determinants is part of the mix.
I guess this will be my final question, really,
and it's a reassurance question.
I cannot understand how,
when there is a focus on one particular area,
and I know that targets are outcome based,
but that then gives a hierarchy.
Do you accept that those things
that are not within the hierarchy of those targets are going
to be less likely to be funded?
And here I'm thinking about affordability,
accessibility screening
and things that are not specifically mentioned in the
government's health targets.
No. Um, well, if, if we get research, uh, that is relevant
and it is not only about the targets.
Uh, I, I I can't say that's more specifically than that.
The targets are a factor. It's not the only a factor.
I mean, the targets are essentially about access,
which is very important,
but it is not the only factor, a wide range of factors.
Thank you. And,
and maybe screening as an example, um,
that's not being excluded, um,
because that actually contributes to, uh,
reduced waiting lists and so on if it works well. Exactly.
Yeah. Carlos,
Just want to talk about the funding
on, on the project as well.
What is the HRC expectation
regarding the risk appetite in the research aid funds?
Because there's been an ongoing concern within the research
sectors that, you know, HRC committee decision on, um, tend
to be more conservative, uh, favor no risk
and nor reward project.
So how, how are you guys going
to, you know, explain to this?
Well, once again, our, um, awarding of
research grants is based on the assessment committees.
Uh, we making mainly the decisions
about the level of funding.
Um, I haven't seen anything that we've discussed that would
tend to wanting to have a low risk appetite.
I mean, some of the research undertaken has got a very high
risk appetite and may not have a specific outcome.
And that's, you know, part of, uh, research, uh, funding.
So I don't believe that's something that we do at all.
No, I, I think if you compare it across the different
discipline areas, uh, biomedical is one of the areas where
some of the largest investments have been made.
And that's a combination of, uh, short
and long-term, um, goals.
Uh, so much of what's happening in that particular space
may not have an immediate impact.
It may take many, many years.
And that's the sort of stuff the HSE funding as well
as let's say the public health stuff,
which may have a more direct, um, impact, uh,
possibly within three to four years.
And again, the, uh,
cervical screening HPV cell sampling project was a good
example of that, but that's not all we do.
Biomedical in particular is long term.
Sure. Or, or, or maybe maybe a change a little bit
angle to look into it.
Um, no matter your basic science research
or clinical research, I mean, one of the key measurement
for scientific research quality is the imperfect
of the general, um, which the article being published.
So consider HRC award five different type of contract,
which contract had performed better,
which is which one is more efficient
and which one actually deliver the greatest
long-term impact.
Are you talking about, uh, impact factors of due?
Yes. Because this is one of key measurement on
how the budget impact. Yeah,
I I think that varies across discipline areas. So, um,
Do you have any data? What
around which range?
Well, well, I, I, I know
that it ranges from very low to extremely high.
So for instance, uh, some of the research that's being, uh,
funded by the Health Research Council
may end up being published in the New England Journal
of Medicine, which is one of the top journals in the field.
And we regularly fund research
that publishes in those areas.
Uh, but there's other areas, let's say occupational health,
uh, which is an area where you don't have the same ability
to publish in those very, um, high impact areas.
And they may get published in lower impact journals. Yes.
So don't you think there will be a good measurement on
how good is the, or how the, uh, how, how much reward
or how much impact is each individual project you funded?
Like for example, I was in the science field before.
We know that there will be like, you know, zero
to five will be one category over five
to 10 will be medium impact or about five basically.
Your, your very good. So don't we use that as a,
as a measurement for, um, how, how, how,
how each port are being performed.
Um, journal impact factors are one of the things
that we, that's right.
That we collect and we look at.
So, um, we have end of contract reporting.
Uh, we have two and five year post-contract surveys, um,
with researchers because we are trying to collect all
of the outputs, outcomes
and impacts, um, from the research that we've funded.
And general impact factor is one of those things,
but there are a number of kind of impacts
and differences that researchers making, um, beyond the kind
of the general impact factor as well.
So those are the things that we are,
we are equally interested in. Sure.
One of our, Sorry, one of our premier awards
that we give out is around, um, impact journal impact.
So I mean, that is to encourage people in
that we obviously we'd like everyone to have that direction
In, in the science field.
We don't want all the, I'm sorry that you
The chair, please, guys.
Let's keep it orderly. Sure. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Chair. Um,
your greatest hits really interested in finding out, uh,
any research, um, that you think is world leading.
Um, how can we tell a great story about what it is?
Can you kind of give us a sense
or flavor of a story around what's being funded?
That is, uh, yes. Gonna put New Zealand at the, at the top?
Yeah. Well, well,
We'll share different stories, I guess.
But we've had, um, research
that has changed the way the world deals with asthma.
Um, we have research
that has changed the way the world deals with the, the world
with lab transfusions in cardiac surgery for the elderly.
We have research that has changed the world's view on
what are the most effective
and cost effective, um, intravenous
supplements to use.
And
Yeah, I mean, uh, some of the receipts that, uh,
HSC has funded has looked at home insulation, for instance,
which has, uh, sorry, say that again.
Home installation. Yeah.
So that has resulted in policy implications,
but also in a number of very high impact journal articles.
Um, there's work done in Dunedin looking at colorectal
cancer, which is leading the world.
So I, I think for a small country,
and I'm originally from the Netherlands,
this is a small country
with relatively small amounts of investment.
I think we are pushing well above our weight.
Neo neonatal research, the, um, cooling cap for, um, yes,
it was HRC research, uh, vaccinations around,
um, hepatitis.
Yeah. Um, there's just a list of them.
Do you wanna add a few, Tanya? Yeah, I mean,
I, I'll just give you a couple of kind
of more recent examples.
Yes. Um, so things that we are really excited about
that we've, um, actually included in our annual report, um,
designing a national lung screen cancer screening program,
um, uh, using micronutrients is an effective treatment
for mood disorders and teenagers, which is, um,
quite a novel, um, approach, uh, turning, is
That, is that the stomach brain kind
of connection thing? Yes, mm-hmm.
Yes. Uh, turning neutron beams into an effective
and safe frontline treatment option
for hard to reach cancers.
Um, so that's proving to, you know, that's,
that's looking like a really exciting potential
Break and through the chair. Finally.
Uh, so obviously tracking all these really great,
um, research, um, projects that have, you know,
put us on the world stage.
Um, how,
how much impact do you think we can
have out into the future?
Are we, are we, are we, um, expected
to stay up at the top with some of these things?
I mean, what's, what's your expectation of the well the work
that's coming through that's been pitched to you?
Yeah, I mean, the contestable views on this,
and there might even be amongst us,
but, um, you know, one of the critical parts to ensuring
that we can continue to be a powerful force for our size
of population in the world of research is nurturing
and building our research workforce.
Uh, that's critical. It's been a very strong investment
profile of the Health Research Council for long term,
and that's often directly related to our level of funding.
Okay. So that's, that's one thing to consider.
Uh, the other thing to consider also is the fact that
we, we need to be able to, you know, I guess focus,
you can't actually fund everything.
And in, in a sense, we are an investigator led organization.
And for example, with the artificial intelligence call
that is like a kind of mission led, so in a sense,
a hybrid approach for us may be a possibility in the future
or more of that because when you investigate led,
and we are going off the best science, um, you know,
it'll be dependent on the investigators.
So I think, you know,
focus might be something much more
important for us in the future.
I don't know if I have anything to add,
but I think it was great.
Just a quick up on Jenny's
and then a clarification, if I may.
The sub is just regarding international collaborations
that is co supported by the Health Research council.
What risk management do you have
and what assurances can you give that None of the research
involves ethical standards
that would not meet New Zealand's ethical standards.
I'm thinking here particularly around, um,
foreign state actors that might be involved in organ,
um, research and so on, given some of the current
collaborations that are going on in the north island.
Yeah, well, it's an important point that, um,
we are very conscious of
and do have guard rails around. Yes.
And are you satisfied that they're robust enough
beyond just the assurances from the sponsor country?
Oh, no, we, we go beyond the superficial in, in,
in particular areas where we may have concern. Okay.
Thank you. It'd be great if we could see those protocols.
Yes. Um, after the meeting, my, my clarification just
regarding the CE role, um, it's been more than a year now,
if I understand correctly
that you haven't had a permanent CE
and you talked about going to market No, August this year.
This year. Oh, it's this year.
So it was August this year. Yeah. Yes.
Nothing To see here. No, that's good.
Listen, yeah, when do you,
when do you expect to go to market?
Well, are in the market America.
Okay. Yeah. Thank You. Yeah, we have been in the market
for some time very
Soon. Thank
you. Thank you, Mr. Um, just a a, a quick set, um,
on a couple of the primaries that have been asked,
I'm interested, and if you've got any information,
any modeling or you've done any analysis on sort
of gap risk, and I appreciate the fact that you've said
that targets, um, haven't, um,
necessarily changed the flavor of
what will be funded overall,
although you also said that you went, you go
to specific leads to make sure
that research community understands the targets
and what that might mean for your, um, strategic direction
and people will follow where the money is perceived to be.
Um, so have you done any work looking at where
that could leave, um, gaps with steam gap in the past?
And we know there was some longitudinal studies all
of a sudden, sometimes, um, their, you know,
their funding hasn't continued
because there's been a strategic change of direction.
Are there any, um, pockets of research
that you've got your eye on
that you are concerned may sort of die down?
Like in the neurological field
or in any, are there any kind of concerns that you've got
and you've done some analysis on that gap risk so
that we don't get to the bottom
and have to rebuild those resources again?
Uh, yeah. So every,
every three years we do a gap analysis, um,
which is looking at what our current investment profile
looks like, and we look at that particularly
around health issue, discipline, workforce, so
that we can understand what's happening in each of those,
um, each of those fields.
Um, and what we are funding and,
and have consistently funded, uh, the, the top six things
that we are funding have not really changed.
They might shift in order a little bit. Mm-hmm.
But it's still cancer, it's cardiovascular disease,
it's infectious disease, um, mental health, um,
prevention and wellbeing.
Um, those are the consistently kind of in the,
in the top there hasn't been a shift. Um, and
So just, just following up, up on that,
so do you have any, is is it part of your program work?
Sorry, I'm subbing and I'm not necessarily privy to the rest
of the process, um, to sort of bolster
or to strengthen some of those things
that aren't in the top six, but, but you think could be,
Uh, yes. So be,
yeah, that, that's where, uh,
list mentioned the mission led part of our research program.
So if there are things that we think are,
are particularly critical
or very concerned about, um, where,
where there are clearly a national need, um,
that then we would produce a targeted call, um, to ask that.
And, and we did that, for example,
when we were in the COVID situation.
Yeah. But that's one way of addressing a gap,
but we are conscious of it, you know.
Sorry, I cut you off.
Yeah. And then with regards to the longitudinal studies,
that was not an active decision based on the discipline area
or the topics, uh, that was based on quality.
So a again, most
of the assessment takes into account the
quality of the application.
And I'm not saying that longitudinal studies didn't have the
quality, but other studies may have ranked higher.
So that was never an intentional decision not
to fund longitudinal studies.
And in fact, we do fund longitudinal studies
Right up on that.
No, we may Thank you. Um, you've mentioned the criteria, um,
and that talks about sector and being sort of clinician led
and, and I think our whole system is that,
and I understand that that's rational.
Have you considered whether there are other ways of, um,
looking at what we don't know that we don't know?
Because that does seem to be one of the, the issues is
that we have a clinician or clinical clinically led health
system rather than necessarily the needs based health system
because we don't have that baseline.
What kind of thinking has gone into to the criteria?
Yeah. Um, I wouldn't say that our system is clinician led,
it's investigator led
and investigators don't have to be clinicians.
We have plenty investigative or a number of investigators.
So I'm talking about the health system generally.
Yeah. Um,
How do we, how do we know what we don't know?
Which I guess this is assumption,
It's a very open questions. Well,
I can try and attempt to, uh,
But they're the health research council,
so it's their job through
The, not really the black swans out there.
I think the researchers know
what we may not necessarily know.
So, and they apply for funding,
putting their ideas in front of us.
So if we don't know certain things, then we will learn from
what they put in front of us, if that makes sense.
Yeah. And the assessment committees thinks it makes sense
and it rings highly. It does get funded.
Okay. Thank you very much for coming in here today.
It was very good. Appreciate much 45. Thank you.